---
pubDatetime: 2026-04-14T21:00:00+11:00
title: "Migrating a production ASP.NET ASMX Web Services API to ASP.NET Core - Introduction"
slug: migrating-aspnet-asmx-to-core-introduction
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - aspnet
  - migration
  - web services
  - asmx
  - dotnet
  - dotnet core
  - strangler fig pattern
description: Table of contents for migrating ASP.NET ASMX web services to ASP.NET Core
---

# Migrating ASP.NET ASMX Web Services to ASP.NET Core

## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction) [This post]
2. Existing WebAPI Architecture
3. New Architecture Design
4. Migration Strategy
5. Challenges in Migration
6. Spike / Experiment
7. First Iteration

## Series Introduction

This series of posts is based on a real-world project where we've had to migrate a legacy ASP.NET ASMX web service to ASP.NET Core. My goal is to share my scars and experiences with you, so you can find some efficiencies in your own migration projects.

The initial conversations about migrating the project (actually, it's two projects with a shared database) started in mid 2024. I've had a number of ideas but was caught up in other work so I couldn't focus on it until late 2025, after I scaled down my CTO/Engineering Manager role at the company to a more hands off, consultant role.

As of March/April 2026, it's still on going so as we progress through this, I'll be sharing more details, successes, and challenges as we go.

## Project Background

When I joined the company in mid 2024, they had two separate ASP.NET ASMX web services projects, both sharing the same database. The product is used in the auto industry and services both sales ('front of house') and servicing ('back of house') of vehicles. the software application is mainly a private product used by the staff of the company -> sales people, service advisors, finance people, technicians, etc. There is also a (sister) public "branding" website which offers vehicle service-bookings into the main application but that is out of scope of this series.

The code base has been around for a long time - if the .ASMX wasn't already a clue!. It's a typical Web Application + Database project - nothing crazy. When you look at the Sql Store Procedure code, there are comments from 2006.

_It's been around for a long time._

As many of us know, working on legacy applications is painful with respect to:

- Lack of engineers with the skills to work on it
- Lack of engineers _who want to work with these legacy technologies_
- Old and poor engineering designs, architecture and practices
- Lack of automated tests, CI/CD pipelines, and other modern engineering practices
- Lack of documentation and tribal knowledge
- Lack of monitoring and observability
- Lack of understanding of the business domain and logic (see above point about tribal knowledge / documentation)
- Lack of confidence in making changes to the system (see above points about lack of tests, monitoring, documentation, and tribal knowledge)

This translates to:

- slow to make new features
- slow to fix bugs
- high risk when making changes
- high cost of maintenance (poor use of infrastructure, inefficient development practices, etc)

So there's always been a desire to migrate this complex beast to a more modern architecture and technology stack.

It's also been in production for 2 decades. So we cannot have any planned large downtime. People need to keep servicing their vehicles and/or having new customers purchse new vehicles.

Finally - the client understands some of this pain and risk (to their business) but is still struggling to invest in this migration. A common problem. We really didn't want to see a critical issue arise (serious hardware failures, security breach, loss of data with poor redundancies is place etc) to force their hand .. which could be too late as damage has been done.

## To the future

Despite the huge number of challenges and risks, we're still going to try and slowly migrate this system in tiny steps where the funding is allocated from the monthly maintenance budget. Not ideal, but it's what we have to work with.

## Next post

In the next post, I'll talk about the existing architecture of this application.
